# On leaving the bay - and my new life on the east

I can't believe it's been 6ish months now since I left the bay for good. A year and half ago I graduated college, internally thinking I was going to be gone from the east for a while - but knowing I would return at some point (and I did, quite a few times between 2018-2019). And about 5 and a half years ago I left the bay for the first time, going to a college I never visited before in a state that I stepped foot in once as a child. Funny how life works, no? 

I got asked this question a lot - "Why on earth would you leave the bay? Weather's great, Silicon Valley's there, your family is there, tons of food and boba" (anyone who knows me knows I have an unhealthy obsession with boba). People would tell me that Maryland's boring and how much they dreamed about going west - or at least go visit. The other half would tell me that while they would love to go visit, they couldn't imagine leaving the area for family - which, makes perfect sense. I had a lot of chances to refine my answer over the years in college, granted how many times I got asked this question everytime I met someone new. 

I got to thinking about this the other day while I was talking to a friend from my last job. She joined the company after I left and we were trading experiences about the company, our experiences growing up (we went to neighboring high schools), and my reasonings for leaving both the company and the bay. I was ready to give my memorized answer (and I ultimately gave some version of it), but it definitely gave me some time to think about everything. 

When I joined that company, I joined it with the intention of leaving after a couple of years. I initially had no intention of returning after my internship there but due to an old mentor & manager, he gave me the push I needed to join to gain experience. He reminded me that not everyone gets that chance and the experience would still prove invaluable, regardless if I liked it or not. It would be a great addition & brand name to my resume and if I didn't like it after a year or so, I can always resign and go find something else. I had my doubts but I knew he was right, so I signed the contract and joined for a year.

I have to preface the next part by saying that even though I left, I don't regret my time spent there. I learned a lot and met a ton of amazing and extremely talented folks. We and a bunch of other new hires formed a group chat on Slack called the Green Tea Fries (shout-outs to them! don't ask about the name). We hung out daily and on the weekends - an extremely rare thing it seems like at other companies. They became my friend group in the bay area, as I didn't really keep in touch with a lot of the folks from my high school. My mentor was right - the work and experience I gained here was invaluable and absolutely worth joining for. I started mentoring at Hackbright Academy, an all-women engineering bootcamp targted towards helping people transition careers by giving them a kickstart into software engineering. Coding bootcamps' reputations are all over the place but becoming a mentor was an extremely eye-opening experience. I got to meet people who come from all walks of life, some who you would never have imagined going through these camps but since they are also in the Silicon Valley, want their shot. It made me realize just how fortunate I was and the experiences I was given just by growing where I did in the valley - experiences that not everyone in the bay can afford or have the luxury to do so. I enjoyed my time as a mentor and want to continue teaching somewhere down the line.

## Time to leave
About half a year in, I started feeling stagnant. I wasn't feeling like I was being challenged anymore - I was frustrated by the lack of progress on the project I was working on, the politics from the team and the company, and generally felt like I was this cog in the machine who's opinions didn't really matter. I was at the bottom of this massive totem pole on a product that was thirty years old in a company that was a hundred years old. Management reminded us that they wanted to help us grow, but it was really only if it benefited the team. I started reaching out to other teams within the company, but after a couple conversations they all fizzled out or I never heard from them again. I made up my mind, I'm resigning come 1 year.

I started doing the usual coding interview prep shenanigans, but at the same time started hunting around for companies to join. I debated for a while where I should be searching for jobs and what kind of companies I should be applying for. I slowly realized that if I truly wanted to leave the bay, I might as well do it now. I watched a handful of my close high school friends leave the bay one by one and I personally had enough of the expensive rent, the lack of diversity, and the overall culture of tech in the bay. I wasn't happy, felt my patience with everyone and everything slipping away, and slowly coming to realize that I was losing sight of why I began working in tech in the first place. I started noticing that there was this air of superiority - that because folks were in tech in the bay, they were somehow better than their peers. Everything was catered towards the growing tech community and if you were in the bay but not in tech, good luck surviving. People were out of touch with the realities of living here, not realizing that just because they lived in the bay not everyone could afford to send their kid to expensive after school programs or college counseling. I had to leave - and the only way I saw to do so was to start hunting for jobs outside of the bay.


